What is Ruby programming language?
Who is the developer of Ruby?
What are class libraries in Ruby?
List some features of Ruby?
Name some operators used in Ruby?
What are Ruby variables?
What is the difference between nil and false in Ruby?
Explain Ruby data types.
What is the use of load and require in Ruby?
Explain while loop in Ruby?
Explain break statement in Ruby?
Explain redo statement in Ruby?
Explain retry statement in Ruby?
How will you comment in Ruby?
Define Ruby methods?
How to create Ruby object?
How to use Ruby methods?
In how many ways a block is written in Ruby?
What is yield statement in Ruby?
Explain Ruby module?
Explain module mixins in Ruby?
Explain ampersand parameter (&block) in Ruby?
Explain Ruby strings?
How to access Ruby strings elements in an application?
How to write multiline string in Ruby?
What is concatenating string in Ruby. In how many ways you can create a concatenating string?
What is the use of global variable $ in Ruby?
In how many ways you can compare Ruby string?
What are Ruby arrays and how they can be created?
What are class libraries in Ruby?
In how many ways items can be added in an array in Ruby?
How to access Ruby array elements? How many methods are used to access Ruby elements.?
Explain Ruby hashes?
How to create a new time instance in Ruby?
Explain Ruby ranges. What are the ways to define ranges?
What are Ruby iterators?
How many iterators are there in Ruby?
How to open a file in Ruby?
How to read a file in Ruby?
What is sysread method in Ruby?
How will you rename and delete a file in Ruby?
How to check whether a directory exist or not in Ruby?
Explain Ruby exceptions?
What are some built-in Ruby class exceptions?
How an exception is handled in Ruby?
Explain the use of retry statement in Ruby?
Explain the use of ensure statement in Ruby?
What is the difference between calling super and calling super()?
Explain each of the following operators and how and when they should be used: ==, ===, eql?, equal?
In Ruby code, you quite often see the trick of using an expression like array.map(&:method_name) as a shorthand form of array.map { |element| element.method_name }. How exactly does it work?
Write a single line of Ruby code that prints the Fibonacci sequence of any length as an array?
Why Ruby Is Known As A Language Of Flexibility?
Mention What Is The Difference Between A Gem And A Plugin In Ruby?
Explain About Garbage Collection Feature Of Ruby?
Explain About Float, Dig And Max?
What Is The Use Of Interpolation In Ruby?
What Is The Use Of Load And Require In Ruby?
Explain About Ruby Code Blocks?
What Is Rails?
How Does Ruby Deal With Extremely Large Numbers?
Explain About Class Variable And Global Variable?
Explain About Ruby Names?
Explain About Normal Method Class?
Explain About The Command Line Options?
Mention What Is The Difference Between Procs And Blocks?
Explain How Can We Define Ruby Regular Expressions?
Mention What Is The Command To Create A Migration?
How Would You Create Getter And Setter Methods In Ruby?
How Does A Symbol Differ From A String?
What Are The Three Levels Of Method Access Control For Classes And What Do They Signify? What Do They Imply About The Method?
Explain Some Of The Looping Structures Available In Ruby?
What Is The Difference Between A Class And A Module?
Name the three levels of access control for Ruby methods?
What are some advantages of using Ruby?
How would you freeze an object in Ruby? Can you provide a simple example?
Ruby provides four types of variables. List them and provide a brief explanation for each?
Can you explain the role of thread pooling in relation to the thread lifecycle in Ruby?
Can you explain how Ruby looks up a method to invoke?
What are blocks and procs?
Predict the output of the code below. Explain your answer?
The .upcase and .capitalize method are used for capitalizing the whole string.
What is the use of .capitalize method?
What is the difference between Array#map and Array#each?
How do you remove nil values in array using ruby?
What is the value of the variable upcased in the below piece of code?
What is the difference between the Object methods clone and dup?
What is the difference between extend and include in ruby?
How many types of variables are used in Ruby and what are they?
Describe a closure in Ruby?
How does Ruby on Rails use the Model View Controller (MVC) framework?
What is the difference between throw/catch and raise/rescue?
